# Extremely simple blogging engine
04 April 2018

I finally decided to start my own blog...

It took me a while to get started because I wanted to have a perfectly tailored blogging engine. Options like Wordpress were of the table because I wanted my blog to remain simple and static. Jekyll would be a good option but I wasn't all that interested in learning Ruby. Also my needs are very simple. I just need a list of articles and a navigation bar to those items. The rest I will handle with .css and optionally JavaScript. So, against better advice I decided to write my own.

The end result turned out to be, very, very simplistic. As in, brutalistic simplistic here is the entire 'engine':

	#!/bin/bash
		
	# all articles by creation time
	articles=`ls -tU articles/*.md`
	
	# return the title an article
	function title() {
	    head -n 1 $1 | cut -c 3-
	}
	
	# place to header of the page
	cat pre.html
	
	# place links to articles
	echo "<nav><ul>"
	for filename in $articles; do
	    title=`title $filename`
	    echo "  <li><a href=\"#${title// /-}\">$title</a></li>"
	done;
	echo "</ul></nav>"
	
	# place articles
	echo "<section>"
	for filename in $articles; do
	    title=`title $filename`
	    echo "<article id=\"${title// /-}\">"
	    markdown $filename
	    echo "</article>"
	done;
	echo "</section>"
	
	# place the footer of the page
	cat post.html

The engine sorts all markdown files in a directory called _articles_ converts them to html and sandwiches it between a html header and footer. That is all, the rest is handled by _.css_. No JavaScript is needed at the moment though I might enrich the functionality of this blog in the future with it.

This is how the _markdown_ for one of my [posts](#Demo-post) looks like:

	# Demo post
	04 April 2018
	
	Hello World!
	
	Just a demo for [this](#Extremely-simple-blogging-engine) article to show you how an post looks in markdown.
	
	* demo
	* markdown

You can find the source code to this script (and my entire blog) [here on github](https://github.com/pluizer/blog).

* blogging
* brutalism
* unix
