# Better than Google
11 April 2018

Once I tried to search something on Google via my sisters computer and by accident found out she searched something in the line of “Google, can I see some pictures of Cats?”. I tried to search for it myself, it did not return that many pictures of cats. Nowadays it does. Google has been _improving_ it’s search engine not to look at what you are literally searching for but what it, thinks, you are looking for. This is all good and well if you want to indulgence in cute pictures of the species Felis Catus but if you are looking for something more obscure or specific searching for something becomes nigh on impossible. 

I’ve pried myself in the past for my Google-fu but trough the years as Google continued to _improve_ for there customers (the advertisers, not you) all my skills become lost and I cannot find anything on Google anymore if it isn’t some recipe on a popular side or a review of a popular movie on another biased site.

That is why I decided to stop using Google and start using [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/). Actually, I made this decision every year for the past 5 years but always came back. First the search results of DuckDuckGo where not that great, then they where good but not as good as Google’s. But now, after using it for more than 4 months I must say, to me, the results are better then those of Google.

The fact that DuckDuckGo does not track you or pollute it’s search results for paid-for items is a nice bonus.

If anybody was thinking of using DuckDuckGo I think now is a good time.

* DuckDuckGo
* opinion
* Google
